## Meta Attacks on Smart Speakers

### How are Smart Speakers sensitive on networks
Recent technological trends have gone down the path of making user interfaces more intuitive. Users now interact with technology in a more natural and *human* way making these devices increasingly user friendly and adoptable by a larger consumer base. Such interface advancements include gesture controls on screens, image recognition capabilities and natural language processing. Smart speakers fit into this space by leveraging natural language processing to interpret human speech as actionable commands. A prominent feature of smart speakers are their ability to act as a hub/digital assistant for a space, typically a home. Users benefit by having hands-free control over a variety of 3rd party software and hardware. Privacy concerns over its clients data exist in one of three ways; the raw data and information the interfaced software/hardware has on the user, the potential collection of data from the hub device integrating these technologies together including the data it collects, finally, vulnerabilities which already exist on a network level. This section will look at known network vulnerabilities which greatly affect the security of smart speakers.

### Types of Attacks
In the article *Smart IoT devices in the home: Security and privacy implications*, Sivaraman et al. discuss the various way smart speakers are vulnerable on the network. Man in the Middle Attacks (MMA) occur when an attacking third party exists inbetween two other communicating parties. These MMA's can be incredibly severe and drastically reduce the privacy of the user by allowing attackers to spoof, remotely access the device, access the communicating data, and information based on user behaviour.[1]

Spoofing is the act of impersonating one of the communicating parties[2]. Primarily, MMA's spoof the service a client is communicating with so to gain sensitive client data. The spoofer may tunnel all communicating data, thereby presenting as one or both parties to gain important privileges or to manipulate either side to their benefit. Sivaraman et al. discovered across a variety of internet connected devices that communications between the smart device and user-interface application as well as the device and the service server were encrypted. Unfortunately, however, holes existed in direct communication between the smart device and the user-interface software. They discovered that some devices were being controlled by the mobile user-interface across the local network in plain-text. In this case, MMA may simply be an individual with access to the WIFI network being capable of controlling the device or user information in the communication software. If spoofers successfully gain the identity of the smart devices they may be capable of accessing or manipulating client data or the devices themselves.

Smart devices are recognized on the internet via the network they are connected to, such as the WIFI, and additionally identified individually by their port of access. Within such a network, a device may be connected to or connect to the network through multiple ports. Sivaraman et al. discovered that some devices were susceptible to MMA *Replay Attacks*, DNS Spoofing, and even communication to a fake server. Though the team discovered that the Amazon Echo smart speaker was protected against replay attacks and identification of fake servers, the DNS spoofing was not fully protected by the device. These types of spoofing efforts allow identification of the device communicating ports and, in some cases, even allow a device to communicate with an unauthorized server. Unauthorized port access may allow attackers to remotely access features of the device, in the case of smart speakers, leaving open the audio input channel active so attackers may 'listen in.' An additional type of attack known with port identification are Denial of Service(DoS) or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. Both attacks leverage the address of the client or server and overwhelms them with requests[3]. In doing so, the target effectively loses function. Typically a single smart device would not be attacked by a DoS, however the device itself, once known, can be an instrument of DDoS attack network and used to overwhelm another device or service.

Spoofing and DoS types of attacks represent more tangible affects of failed security. In their study, 'A smart home is no castle: Privacy vulnerabilities of encrypted iot traffic' Apthorpe et al. outline the knowledge acquisition available to passive observers of given network. In this respect, an attacker is less of an attacker than another entity on the same network observing the source and destination of TCP connections. The security danger set on smart speaker users at this point is the inferred behaviour of the users. The paper examines several internet connected devices one, for instance, is the Sense Sleep Monitor which tracks a users environment and movement during sleep. Though the particulars of what data is being sent, such as temperature or local noise, is encrypted, the meta data such as the time, DNS queries, send/receive rates of the packets can strongly correlate to use cases on individual devices - especially given these devices are widely available for anyone to scrutinize. Smart speakers primarily act as a hub of many 3rd party devices and services. In doing so, users potentially give the manufacturers of the devices increased insight into their behaviours beyond the default capabilities of the smart speaker itself. This type of inferred consumer behaviour becomes of great interest to entities such as ISP which may conglomerate such data and sell it to other parties. Further, such data may also include information which identifies or targets specific users especially based on their network traffic. 

### Future protections
The ubiquity of internet connected devices has ingrained itself into modern society giving consumers the benefit of increased productivity and capability. The cost of such benefits however, reduce the given privacy of not only the consumers but even those sharing the digital network they are apart of. Attackers may benefit by collecting the data given by these devices for their own uses or by possibly taking control of the device itself. Further, a consumer may be wholly susceptible to network observation when their inferred behaviour can be captured and exploited by observers. Given the user-friendly nature of these devices and their capabilities, it may be the responsibility of the device manufacturers to adhere to strict security and privacy standards to better serve their customers as well as protecting the integrity of their own products and services. The following reports will examine the available protections manufacturers can observe, insights into consumer perception and agency in increasing their own security in the presence of these devices, and finally potential solutions to the specific security concerns of smart speakers.

<br />

## References

1. Sivaraman, V., Gharakheili, H. H., Fernandes, C., Clark, N., & Karliychuk, T. (2018). Smart IoT devices in the home: Security and privacy implications. IEEE Technology and Society Magazine, 37(2), 71-79.

2. Felten, E. W., Balfanz, D., Dean, D., & Wallach, D. S. (1997). Web spoofing: An internet con game. Software World, 28(2), 6-8.

3. Douligeris, C., & Mitrokotsa, A. (2004). DDoS attacks and defense mechanisms: classification and state-of-the-art. Computer Networks, 44(5), 643-666.

4. Apthorpe, N., Reisman, D., & Feamster, N. (2017). A smart home is no castle: Privacy vulnerabilities of encrypted iot traffic. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.06805.
